Terraform:


infrastructure provisioning
automate and manage your infrastructure.
and platform
uses the declarative.

declarative vs imperative
declarative means specify what end result you want
imperative means define exact steps.

ansible vs terraform
are both infrastructure as a code
both automate provisioning, configuring and managing the infrastructure.


diff:

terraform:
mainly infrastructure provisioning tool
can deploy apps


ansible:
mainly a configuration tool
configure that infrastructure
deploy apps
install/update the software.

use cases of terraform:
replicating the infrastructure is easy

architecture:

two main components:
1.core
2.providers like aws/azure like [iaas]
                 Kubernetes [paas]
		 fastly [saas]

terraform  has 100+ provides.


core takes two input sources 
1.TF-Config
2.State- contains current state of the setup

core will take the input from the config file and check the state after that it will plan like what needs to be then like create/update/destroy.

once core creates the execute plane based on the input from the config file and state then uses the providers uses specific technologies to execute the plane with providers.


commands:
refresh : query the infrastructure provider to get the current state
plan: create an execution plan
determines what actions are necessary to achieve the desired state
just a preview, no changes to real resources
apply: execute the plan
destroy: destroy the resources/infrastructure.


plan is the preview, what will happen. when we click the apply refresh will run and get the state and create the plan and applied it.






built in functions:


concat(list1, list2, ...): Combines multiple lists into a single list.
element(list, index): Returns the element at the specified index in a list.
length(list): Returns the number of elements in a list.
map(key, value): Creates a map from a list of keys and a list of values.
lookup(map, key): Retrieves the value associated with a specific key in a map.
join(separator, list): Joins the elements of a list into a single string using the specified separator.


IGW:
used for public subnets.
It essentially serves as a gateway for internet-bound traffic to enter or leave your VPC.



